---
layout: default
title: Build the App for Android
---

h2(#prereq). Prerequisites

* "Apache Ant":http://ant.apache.org/
* Java JDK 6 with correctly set `JAVA_HOME` environment variable
* "Android SDK":https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html with API level 19 and the platform tools installed
* "Android NDK":https://developer.android.com/tools/sdk/ndk/index.html Revision 9d or newer

See the Android "developer documentation":https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html for more information.

h2(#build). Build Steps

Check out the SVMP client and protocol side-by-side in a directory of your choice

  <pre>
  git clone https://github.com/SVMP/svmp-protocol-def.git
  git clone https://github.com/SVMP/svmp-android-client.git
  </pre>

Build the client using ant.

  <pre>
  cd svmp-android-client
  ant debug
  </pre>

Additional ant commands are documented "here":https://developer.android.com/tools/building/building-cmdline.html#AntReference.

Gradle build files are also included, however Ant is recommended. Gradle 1.10, 1.11, or 1.12 is required. To build the application using gradle:

<pre>
cd svmp-android-client
gradle build
</pre>

h2(#cert-pinning). Building with Server Certificate Pinning

By default, the client application will use Android's built-in CA cert store when connecting to TLS-protected servers. To allow only specific server certificates or specific signing CAs, you can add your own set of "pinned" certificates at build time.

Place your chosen certificates into the <code>svmp-android-client/server_certs/</code> directory in PEM format. The build process will pick up any files with a <code>.pem</code> extension in that directory and compile them into the pin list.

If you do not wish to use pinning, leave this directory empty. If using your own self-signed certificates, you can either place the cert in the pin list here, or enable allowing untrusted certs from with the application at run-time. See the "client configuration guide":client-android-using.html for more information on the latter.

h2(#ide). IDEs

Instructions for setting up projects for SVMP in the Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA IDEs are included in the "README":https://github.com/SVMP/svmp-android-client/blob/master/README.md.

h2(#install). Install

First enable installing applications from "Unknown Sources":https://developer.android.com/distribute/tools/open-distribution.html#unknown-sources on your phone.

* Post the APK on a web site and browser to the link on the phone.
* Attach the APK to an email and send it to the phone.
* Install over USB using the Ant and ADB:
  <pre>
  ant installd
  ... or ...
  adb install bin/ConnectionList-debug.apk
  </pre>

*Note*: The SVMP client application does not function correctly in the Android SDK Emulator due to its use of certain OpenGL ES calls.
